ns server is already installed and it's running on port 8085. You will find
 the jenkins-cli.jar file under /root on the Jenkins server, which you can use to
 interact with Jenkins over CLI.


You can use Jenkins CLI from the terminal using below given command:

java -jar jenkins-cli.jar -s http://localhost:8085 -auth 'admin:Adm!n321' <command>
Below are the Jenkins credentials:

Username: admin

Password: Adm!n321


Notes:

a. You might need to restart Jenkins service after installing some plugins or after
 making some configuration changes etc. In such case please make sure Jenkins service
 is back up before you submit your solution.

b.  Please make a note of Jenkins credentials given above.

c. This lab is mainly focused on Jenkins CLI so please avoid using Jenkins UI during this lab.

2. Can we manage Jenkins plugins from cli? (install, uninstall, disable etc)
yes

3. Which of the following CLI options can we use to list all the installed plugins?
list-plugins

4. Which of the following CLI options can we use to install a Jenkins plugin?
install-plugin CLI option can be used to install a Jenkins plugin.

5. Which of the following CLI options can we use to uninstall a Jenkins plugin?
None of these given options can be used to uninstall a Jenkins plugin.

6. Which of the following CLI options can we use to disable a Jenkins plugin?
Ans = disable-plugin CLI option can be used to disable a Jenkins plugin.

7. Install the Bitbucket Branch Source plugin using the Jenkins CLI.
Ans java -jar jenkins-cli.jar -s http://localhost:8085 -auth 'admin:Adm!n321' install-plugin cloudbees-bitbucket-branch-source

8. Upgrade the cloud-stats plugin to the latest available version using the Jenkins CLI.
Ans = java -jar jenkins-cli.jar -s http://localhost:8085 -auth 'admin:Adm!n321' install-plugin cloud-stats
Make sure to restart jenkins service:

sudo service jenkins restart

9. Disable the github plugin using the Jenkins CLI.
java -jar jenkins-cli.jar -s http://localhost:8085 -auth 'admin:Adm!n321' disable-plugin github -restart -r















