ECURING JENKINS/CONTROLLER ISOLATION
1. Jenkins server is already installed and it's running on port 8085. You can access 
the same using Jenkins button on the top bar. Login into the Jenkins server using below given credentials:

Username: admin

Password: Adm!n321


Notes: You might need to restart Jenkins service after installing some plugins or after
 making some configuration changes etc. In such case please make sure Jenkins service is back up before you submit your solution.


 Please make a note of Jenkins credentials given above.

2. Which section of the web UI allows a Jenkins administrator to enable, configure, or
 disable key security features which apply to the entire Jenkins environment?
Observe the available options under Security by navigating to Jenkins Dashboard -> Manage Jenkins
Ans = Security

3. Which among the following is the primary mechanism for securing a Jenkins environment against unauthorized usage?
solution 
Access control

4. Select the options that holds true regarding the access to Jenkins environment.
includes both authentication and authorization.

5. Using both the Security Realm and Authorization configurations it is possible to configure 
very relaxed or very rigid authentication and authorization schemes in Jenkins.

6. Is it possible to extend the Access Control capabilities of Jenkins?
Answer = True

7. Let's extend some Authorization capabilities of Jenkins to support even more authorization schemes.
Install Role-based Authorization plugin.

Note:

Observe the new available options under Authorization using the standard Manage Jenkins > Security screen after the plugin installation.


8. Select the option that best describes the concept of distributed builds in Jenkins.

Distributed builds in Jenkins is a great start for protecting the Jenkins controller from malicious (or just broken) build scripts.

Builds should be executed on other nodes than the build controller.

9. By default, Jenkins run its builds on the built-in node. It is done to make smooth transition
 towards learning Jenkins but is inadvisable in long term.
It is due to the fact that any builds running on the built-in node have the same level of access
 to the controller file system as the Jenkins process.

10. Configure Jenkins to prevent builds from running on the Built-In Node directly?
solution
Navigate to Manage Jenkins » Manage Nodes and Clouds screen and change the number of Executors to 0 for the Built-In Node.





